# Transport

## Public transport

Go to subway, buy a monthly card depending on your daily route and schedule.

In Munich, if you live and work close to the city center, it's _IsarCard 9 uhr,
Innenraum_, about €60 per month, that gives you ability to use all the public
transport (not just subway) within first four rings (read further).

The greater Munich area is divided into 4 zones, each consisting of 4 rings, so
16 rings in total: [see official
doc](http://www.mvv-muenchen.de/en/tickets-fares/tariff-structure/rings/index.html).
You can download detailed maps there as well.

Take your daily route, find stations on the map, find what rings these stations
belong to, and buy a corresponding card. The more rings, the more expensive, so
it's of your best interest to understand this thing.

You can also use an app to buy tickets, which is cool because a ticket, which is
a piece of paper, can get worn out or lost. The phone can also get lost, of
course, so choose wisely. The app is ["MVV
Companion"](https://itunes.apple.com/de/app/mvv-companion/id388686726?mt=8).

## Regional land transport

In Bavaria, there's a thing called "Bayern-Ticket". It's a public transport
ticket that allows you to travel to any point in Bavaria with (most likely) a
train or a bus.

The cost is €25 + €6/person. Kids don't count. A family of three with 5 years
old kid will pay €37 and go anywhere.

With Bayern-Ticket is also possible to go (slightly) outside Germany, for
example, to Salzburg, Austria. It's a good opportunity to reach another country
super cheap. Worth it.

You can buy ticket via the app or in a Regio Bahn terminal. The app is more
convenient. You can buy it minutes before departure. Perhaps even after
departure, but better not test this.

Tickets don't claim seats. It's possible a certain train is oversold and you'll
end up standing the whole way until the destination point. So arrive early.
Typically, the train is there 30 minutes before departure, and you can enter it
as soon as it's standing on the platform.

The ticket is not limited by number of trips, but it works only until end of the
day. You can go many places with it, time is the only limiting factor.
